[docs] Add coredb merge instructions (#27241)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/contribute/core-database/merge-with-upstream-repositories.md

To make matters worse, those point-imports can have conflicts on the external repository side, and they could have other conflicts on the [yugabyte-db repository][repo-yugabyte-db] side as well.
Do that ten or so times, and it becomes difficult to track which changes are made by YugabyteDB and which changes are point-imported.
The CSV necessitates a single commit tracking what upstream state is being tracked.
Therefore, in case of port-imports, YugabyteDB must create a fork of the external repository to track the state of the upstream code with the point-imports.

To make matters more complicated, the upstream repository might be tracked differently across [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db] branches.
For example, pgaudit has different branches for each PG version while pg_cron has a single branch where, at any point, there is multi-version support.
In case of the former, it is necessary to track separate upstream commits across [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db] branches, and if a fork is required, then a branch should be created for each PG version that YugabyteDB supports, conventionally named `yb-pg<version>`.

> In case of the latter, one may do the same, or a single `yb` branch can be used across all [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db] branches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of the latter, you may do the same, or a single `yb` branch can be used across all [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db] branches.
```

1. Create a Phorge revision of this feature branch for official review.
   Make sure lint is not skipped to make sure [`upstream_repositories.csv`][upstream-repositories-csv] is valid.
   The reviewer should make sure the latest commit hash of both submissions are exactly equal.
1. Request permission from @buildteam in the internal slack #eng-infra channel to land a merge commit of this revision.
1. Land the change using the merge strategy:

   ```sh
   arc land --strategy merge --revision D...... --onto master
   ```

   Append `--hold` if it is your first time and you are afraid of making mistakes.
   After [checking the structure looks good](#subtree-illustrations) using a command such as `git log --oneline --graph`, push the change using the sample command provided at the end of the `arc land --hold` output.
   In this example, this was done by commit [b01e29bafa6fb8bfb899f0b3ac6e98363340c8e7](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/commit/b01e29bafa6fb8bfb899f0b3ac6e98363340c8e7).

### Converting a squash embedded upstream repository to subtree

Working with an existing squash embedded repositories to the subtree strategy is a lot more complicated.

> This is primarily because of the hoops one has to jump through to make `git blame` point to the subtree rather than the old squash commits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is primarily because of the hoops you have to jump through to make `git blame` point to the subtree rather than the old squash commits.
```

     Record that commit for later use.
   - Sometimes, there are changes that are not point-imports.
     Manually check whether those changes exist in the target version on a case-by-case basis.
     Record those changes for later use.
1. Create a new branch `yb-pg18` on `REL_18_1`, then apply each change recorded above.
   If cherry-picking commits, use `-x`.
   For merge conflicts, resolve and amend them to the same commit, describing resolutions within the commit messages themselves.
   The procedure here is very much like the first three steps of [doing point-imports](#squash-point-imports).
1. Do the same steps as in [direct-descendant merge](#squash-direct-descendant-merge), starting from "Apply those changes to the [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db] repo."
   A difference is that this merge may be so much larger that the initial merge is incomplete and potentially based off an old commit on [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db].
   This initial merge commit and further development to close the gaps can be done in a separate `pg18` branch on [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db].

>    This is what was done for the PG 15 merge, from [yugabyte/yugabyte-db@55782d561e55ef972f2470a4ae887dd791bb4a97](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/commit/55782d561e55ef972f2470a4ae887dd791bb4a97) to [yugabyte/yugabyte-db@eac5ed5d186b492702a0b546bf82ed162da506b0]((https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/commit/eac5ed5d186b492702a0b546bf82ed162da506b0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is what was done for the PG 15 merge, from [yugabyte/yugabyte-db@55782d561e55ef972f2470a4ae887dd791bb4a97](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/commit/55782d561e55ef972f2470a4ae887dd791bb4a97) to [yugabyte/yugabyte-db@eac5ed5d186b492702a0b546bf82ed162da506b0](https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/commit/eac5ed5d186b492702a0b546bf82ed162da506b0).
```

   Then, do `git merge v0.103-0`.
   (It may still be the case that the target version, in this example `v0.103-0`, already has contains all the changes YB imported on top of `v0.102-0`.
   If that is the case, then the merge can be simplified to take exactly the target version: `git merge -X theirs v0.103-0`.)
   Do any relevant testing if applicable.
   Record merge resolutions into the merge commit message.
   There should only be the merge commit and no other extraneous commits on top of it.
   Make a GitHub PR of this through your fork for review.
1. On the [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db] repo, [subtree merge](#git-subtrees) this branch.

#### Subtree non-direct-descendant merge

The steps that follow will use pgaudit as an example.

This merge can technically be handled similarly as [direct-descendant merge](#squash-direct-descendant-merge).
However, there is a much faster alternative that should be taken.
A prerequisite for using this alternative is that the target version contains all the commits of the source version (or, nearly equivalently, the target version was released later than the source version).

> For example, `1.7.0` should contain all commits in `1.3.2`, considering backports as equivalent to each other, and for any commits only in PG `1.3.2`, they are likely irrelevant for PG `1.7.0`.

Reviewer 2: We should probably say PGAudit 1.3.2 instead of PG 1.3.2

> This prerequisite generally shouldn't fail since major version upgrades should aim for the latest minor version of a major version.

Reviewer 2: Since this paragraph is very similar to the other paragraph describing when a non-direct-descendant merge can be done, should we move them into one joint section called "When is a non-direct-descendant merge possible?" to avoid the paragraphs diverging?

### Find PostgreSQL back-patch commits

When PostgreSQL back-patches a commit, the commit message is generally unchanged.
Therefore, one way to find all back-patches of a given commit is by filtering on the commit title: `git --grep '<title>' --all`.
Do be aware to neutralize any regex special characters when using this command, for example by replacing them with `.` or `.*` or omitting them if they are at one of the ends.
For example, title `Reject substituting extension schemas or owners matching ["$'\].` can be searched by `git --grep 'Reject substituting extension schemas or owners matching ' --all`.

If you already have a certain branch in mind, it is more efficient to search in that branch directly.
For example, if you are interested in finding whether a certain `master` commit has been back-patched to `REL_15_STABLE`, use `git --grep '<title>' REL_15_STABLE`.
If you are interested in finding whether a certain `REL_15_STABLE` back-patch commit is present in `REL_18_1`, use `git --grep '<title>' REL_18_1`.

### Testing PostgreSQL

When doing a point-import or merge of upstream PostgreSQL, often that leads to creating a commit in [yugabyte/postgres][repo-postgres] repo.

> One should make sure that tests pass after that commit to catch logical merge conflicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should make sure that tests pass after that commit to catch logical merge conflicts.
```

There are many tests scattered around different Makefiles, generally run using `make check`.

> Ideally, all should pass, but here are a few that one should pay special attention to since [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db] also partially uses them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideally, all should pass, but here are a few that you should pay special attention to since [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db] also partially uses them:
```

   What we care about for the merge are existing files that have been overwritten with new content.
   Use `git add -u` to add all those changes, and commit them (commit message does not matter since this is not an official commit).
1. `git merge` the upstream merge commit.
   Since this is a merge commit, `git blame` shows upstream commits on one side of the conflict, and on the other side, it shows the YB changes squashed to a single commit created in the previous step.
   For further reference of the YB changes, consult `git blame` in [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db].
   As always, keep track of resolution notes somewhere.
1. After completing the unofficial merge to the best of your ability, sync this new content back to [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db]'s upstream repository directory.
   Now, build can be attempted in [yugabyte/yugabyte-db][repo-yugabyte-db] to catch compilation and test issues, leading to further changes.

In all cases, cross-repository merge conflicts may arise, in which case resolution details should be noted in the commit messages.
See MERGE.

> TODO(jason): where is MERGE?

Reviewer 2: Should this TODO be resolved?
